---
slug: mcp-router-0.4.5-released
title: MCP Router 0.4.5 Released
authors: [mcp-router]
tags: [release]
---

MCP Router 0.4.5 has been released! 🎉

Hello, MCP fans!
We're excited to announce the release of MCP Router version 0.4.5.

## Project Direction Update
Over the past three months, MCP Router was developed as a closed-source project to prevent potential issues related to other projects "free-riding"—similar to how Cursor forked VSCode, potentially affecting project sustainability.

Starting with MCP Router 0.4.5, we're adopting the Fair Code principles by releasing the source code under a Sustainable Use License. This license, also adopted by projects like n8n, requires licensing for commercial use, ensuring our project's sustainability.

With this shift, we look forward to collaborating closely with our community to further enhance MCP Router and expand its capabilities.

## Key New Features
In the last three months, we've significantly improved the user experience, making MCP Router more intuitive and accessible.

Version 0.4.5 introduces seamless integration with any MCP server, providing total flexibility in infrastructure choices.

We've also adopted a local-first approach, empowering users to maintain control over their data. This approach ensures effective use even without a constant internet connection, enhancing not only performance but also privacy and data sovereignty.

- **Enhanced Integration**: Seamless connectivity with VSCode, Cursor, Claude, Windsurf, and custom clients, allowing you to work comfortably in your preferred development environment.
- **Native OS Encryption**: Securely protect sensitive data such as MCP arguments, environment variables, remote URLs, and bearer tokens using the OS's native encryption mechanisms.
- **New API Implementation**: Comprehensive API for programmatic access to all MCP Router functionalities.
- **AI Agents**: Easily create and utilize AI agents compatible with any MCP server.

Download the software [here](https://mcp-router.net/install).

Watch the demo video [here](https://x.com/mcp_router/status/1907153162487931156).

We remain dedicated to continuously evolving MCP Router to meet your needs better, and we're excited to introduce even more features soon.
Together, through an open development process, we look forward to building an outstanding tool with our community.
